Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we can work out a different type of texture to our board itself.
A generated texture.
The brilliant thing about these is they are procedural so we can change them continually until we just
find the one that we want.
As you can see we've got a marble effect one here and some other crap called Mosaic type pattern as
well representing the back squares.
Let's find out how we do that okay.
So we will start off in our chest scene file here because I can show you on one of the color squares.
Of course you guys can go and finish off the other color first of all let's have a little zoom out and
have a look at our general setup for a material and the moment we have the wood material selected we've
got a texture corner telling blender how we want to map all texture to our model.
In this case we're going to use the object the mapping node itself.
I don't think we're going to need that with our generate texture.
Then we've got our texture itself followed by the principal BSF and the material output.
So let's go to our white pieces.
You wouldn't use this dropdown here this is going to change the assignment of materials.
You want to go to where it is slot 3 and pick the white squares.
So you've got our principal B SDF and the material outputs.
Let's go ahead and add in.
Now we know it's called a texture cordon.
You can find it under the input menu.
You can add texture horn in and we need a texture.
Now I'm just going to pick or a wave texture for the moment and plug in generated or object.
I don't think it's going to matter too much in this case and the color output into base color.
Now you wouldn't necessarily have the color output you could put the factor in the base color as well
or even the factor into something like the roughness and where it's black which will see more of in
a moment as I turn this up.
There we go.
You've got the stripy lines.
If I plug the factor into the roughness you'll see that where it's black.
Look at the eyes also shiny.
And of course then you can start playing with all of the extra bits and bobs a long pair trying to get
it looking much better.
And then we go get a mottled effect on the surface of our white squares pretty quickly.
And having it look pretty reflective in those parts and being controlled by this generates texture.
Now this points of course I can turn down the scale and hopefully what we do get is a more of a marble
effect.
So if we set that one there we go.
We've got a marble effect across our board.
So these are the basic four notes that we need in the set up.
You can use a texture not only to control the color but other aspects as well.
Now that's something we'll delve into much more detail later on.
But for the moment using the fact to change the values of the roughness is a good idea.
Sometimes you can use the color as well but you don't have to we can turn that off and you see here
we get a completely different effect which could be just as awesome as having the color there as well.
Of course at the moment we don't have anything in place to control the color more accurately or indeed
control the facts or more accurately and make things shinier or smoother or even a slightly different
color if we want to we're lacking that control in this sets up but we'll learn more about that later.
So now we've got one square sorted it's time for the black squares and I think that will be done in
a challenge okay.
So your challenge is to use a generated texture for the black squares on the board.
Straightforward pose video now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back let's hop on over in splendor
and get those black squares a generated texture Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and going to go to slot 2 which is my black squares.
I'm going to add in a texture a very annoyed texture and I'm also going to add in an input texture corner
and just link these things together Hey guys.
Mark hair.
They've updated the very annoyed texture so it looks a bit different from what you're used to seeing
in the course.
We just go to an input texture coordinate first of all and go also to our textures.
And if I can get on that and get very annoyed texture note that's what we want.
There we go.
And you know if they've brought in this new dropdown you can project in to get one day sorry to day
three day which is what we're used to seeing in Blender and also a fourth dimension.
Let's not go into the fourth dimension.
Let's get the object not the generated and put that into vector and also put the color into the base
color node.
I've also got it on looked at mode.
So that comes up almost immediately.
Now the difference here is going to be mainly the scale that we go if we turn that down that's more
to what's in the lecture.
We put it back default by this randomize.
That's quite cool.
You take it all the way down you've you've got a Minecraft blocker the Minecraft.
Awesome bringing around this back up but as we're saying it bring scale in that and you get a bit more
of what you're seeing in the lectures there.
I'm not quite sure what these are different although all different patterns they get a bit more variation
I think for this purpose.
We're using a Euclidean maybe Manhattan maybe Manhattan.
I'm OK with that in mind.
Back to Mike now.
This is one that actually has color in it.
So if I was to go in and change the cells you can see here if I turn the scale up we get a load of different
colored cells in our scene.
That's not what I want in this case.
So I'm not going to use that.
I could use the factor for instance and then I get a black and white version of that in fact that might
look quite nice on those white ones.
I'm not quite sure you know there's so many options that we can go for.
In fact I could leave the base color a solid color and just use the factor on the roughness itself.
See what happens then Woo.
I am liking that.
That's a very so faceted look much like the board and all sort of the pieces itself that turned on the
scale on it.
So let's play with the scale a little and so we're happy I'm happy with those larger versions.
Now they are still quite light squares so I'm going to turn down color on that all the way down to black
and see what we've got.
OK brilliant.
I like the way that this is now starting to come together.
Of course there are many many other options that we can play with.
But for the moment let's keep it simple and see where we go.
Now I do encourage you to play with the different texture types.
Not only do we have Warren oi here but we have many many others some of which of course will not work
in this particular circumstance but it's useful to play around with them on a simple model like this
to see what their real effect is so that's it for this lecture please share your boards and your generated
textures how you've applied them over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.